+++
title = "Project background"
+++

The CAPI project started in early 2012 in cooperation with the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation, the Living Standards Measurement
Study-Integrated Surveys on Agriculture team and the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Initially, the client
software was produced for Microsoft Windows 7-based Tablet PCs; at the
same time first versions of the Survey Management System (the server
software) have been released.

The project, however, coincided with massive changes to Microsoft
Windows-powered tablet devices. Windows RT, the successor of the tablet
version of Windows 7 that was launched in September 2012, has not
preserved backward software compatibility. Consequently, applications
written specifically for Windows 7, such as the CAPI client, would not
work on the newer devices

At the same time, the market share of basic Android tablet devices kept
growing, especially among low-cost devices that could be purchased also
by austere governments or from shoestring research budget. As a result,
our team decided to concentrate its efforts on developing an
Android-based client, with the possibility of extending the support to
other platforms at a later stage.

The change in the chosen platform led to postponing the implementation
of certain features, as the attention of the developers was focused on
producing the new version of the client. Given that, the first pilot
survey using the CAPI system was started only in March 2013 in St.
Lucia.