+++
title = "Moving Around the Questionnaire "
keywords = ["navigation","interviewer","app","scroll","breadcrumbs"]
date = 2016-07-14T21:39:20Z
lastmod = 2016-07-14T21:39:20Z
aliases = ["/customer/portal/articles/2498177-moving-around-the-questionnaire-","/customer/en/portal/articles/2498177-moving-around-the-questionnaire-","/customer/portal/articles/2498177","/customer/en/portal/articles/2498177","/interviewer/moving-around-the-questionnaire-"]

+++

Overall
-------

  
Interviewers should strictly follow the survey protocol for
administering a questionnaire (e.g. asking earlier questions before
later questions, completing earlier modules before later modules), but
may occasionally need to move around the questionnaire for good reasons
(e.g. review their work, move between rows of the roster if the
respondent corrects an earlier answer, administer an independent module
when the key respondent for that module is present).  
  
The interviewer can move around questionnaires in several ways.  
  
  
 

Within a section
----------------

  
Swiping up and down moves within a single group of questions (e.g., a
module).  
 
![](file://localhost/Users/Shima/Library/Caches/TemporaryItems/msoclip/0/clip_image001.png)
 
![](file://localhost/Users/Shima/Library/Caches/TemporaryItems/msoclip/0/clip_image002.png)  
  
{{< imgproc "images/658448.png" Fit "800x600" />}}  
  
  
 

Between sections at different hierarchical levels
-------------------------------------------------

  
Within any given module, the interviewer may use *breadcrumbs*,
represented as links at the top of the screen, to move between different
groups of questions and sub-sections of the module. Like the breadcrumbs
in the fable of Hansel and Gretel, these pieces of the interface are
meant to help the interviewer find their path back to where they were in
the interview (e.g., moving out of a sub-section and into the main
module).  
  
To see this, consider the image below. The interviewer is currently in a
group of questions about the *Plot 2* (the title shown at the top of the
section). That group of questions falls within *Parcel Roster-By the
river* (the next breadcrumb), which itself falls inside the *Parcel,
Plot, and Crop Details* module. If the interviewer wanted to move from
the *Plot 2* section to the *Parcel Roster-By the river* section, they
could simply click on the *Parcel Roster-By the river* breadcrumb. If
the interviewer wanted to move to the main part of the *Parcel, Plot,
and Crop Details* module from either the *Parcel Roster-By the river* or
the *Plot 2* sections, they would only have to tap on the *Parcel, Plot,
and Crop Details* breadcrumb.  
  
  
{{< imgproc "images/658453.png" Fit "800x600" />}}

 

  
  
  
 

Between sections
----------------

  
The interviewer may move from one section to the next by using the
always-available navigation pane, represented by three horizontal lines
that, when pressed, expands into an interactive table of contents of the
questionnaire.  
  
  
{{< imgproc "images/658454.png" Fit "800x600" />}}
