+++
title = "Workspace Settings"
keywords = ["admin","logo","encryption","accounts"]
date = 2017-01-09T22:11:21Z
lastmod = 2025-04-13T11:11:11Z
aliases = [
  "/customer/portal/articles/2707388-admin-settings",
  "/customer/en/portal/articles/2707388-admin-settings",
  "/customer/portal/articles/2707388",
  "/customer/en/portal/articles/2707388",
  "/headquarters/admin-settings",
  "/headquarters/config/admin-settings/",
  "/headquarters/config/workspace-settings"
]

+++

Survey Solutions server [administrator](/headquarters/accounts/survey-solutions-server-administrator/)
may adjust the workspace settings. These settings affect simultaneously all
surveys and all users *in a particular workspace* on the server and have the
effect immediately when applied.

These settings are visible only to the user logged in in an administrative role
and can be accessed from:

- for the current workspace: `Menu` &#x2192; `Settings` &#x2192; `Workspace settings`.
- for any other workspace: `Menu` &#x2192; `Administration` &#x2192; click particular workspace name &#x2192; `Settings`.


## Workspace settings tabs

Workspace settings are organized into tabs (subpages) corresponding to the
following groups:

- Export;
- Global note;
- User profile;
- Devices;
- Web interview;
- Company logo.


## Workspace settings: Export

### Export Encryption

This group of settings contains settings that control the encryption of the data
archive produced when exporting the data from Survey Solutions.

When `enable encryption` checkbox is checked, the produced data zip-archive will
be encrypted with a password that the administrator sees in the settings. To
ensure high level of security the password can't be typed in, but is generated
using a random password generation algorithm to make sure the password is
sufficiently complex. The administrator may request a different password to be
generated by pressing the circular arrows button. There is no way of setting a
specific password in this field.

**Default = disabled**

The field `password` must be populated with a valid password for encryption to
take effect. There is no default password. To ensure the password is strong,
the program generates one automatically. A new password can be generated by
clicking on the refresh button.

### Retention policy

Retention policy refers to the policy of keeping (and periodically deleting)
prepared export files.

**Default = disabled**

Numeric parameter `Days to keep` sets the desired retention period for produced
export data archives (in days). It accepts integer values from `1` to `1,000`
and does not have any default value defined (correspondingly, it doesn't apply
by default).

Numeric parameter `Number of files to keep` sets the maximum number of files
after reaching which the older files will be purged by the system. It accepts
integer values from `1` to `100,000` and does not have any default value
defined (correspondingly, it doesn't apply by default).

More information is available in the [retention policy]() article.

The `FORCE RUN` button enforces the cleanup based on the currently setup policy
to be run immediately within this workspace. If the button is not pressed, the
files will be cleaned up at server's discretion, (usually within the next 24
hours), and periodically after that for as long as the retention policy remains
activated.

### Clear export cache

This group doesn't have any settings, but only a button to `CLEAR EXPORT CACHE`.
This is a maintenance procedure that helps address issues of the export not
being produced in some situations. Normally the users do not need to ever press
this button, but may be recommended to do so, if the support team finds it to
be advisable in their specific situation.

This procedure does not erase the collected data. Instead, it performs a cleanup
of the staged export (eliminating the prepared export data archives and
supplementary data structures.) The next export job submitted after clearing
export cache will take substantially longer time to be processed.


### Global Note

This group of settings contains only one setting that controls the server global
note. When specified, the global note will be shown at every page for every user
logged into the Survey Solutions Server.

**Default = empty**

- To specify the global note - specify a new note and click `save`.
- To change the global note - specify a new note and click `save`.
- To remove a global note - click the `delete` button.

You will see a message `Note saved` on successful update or deletion of the
global note.

### User Profile Settings

This group contains a single setting that controls whether the interviewers may
update their contact information.

**default = off**

By default the interviewers may not update their contact information (such as
  email address or phone number).

- To allow interviewers to update their contact information - set the checkbox
  to checked state.
- To disallow interviewers to update their contact information - set the
  checkbox to unchecked state.

### Interviewer/Supervisor application settings

This group contains the Interviewer/Supervisor application settings
centrally controlled from the server by the administrator.

`Enable automatic updates` determines whether only the most recent
version of the App (as installed on the server) may be utilized by
the workforce to exchange data with the server.

**default = on**

By default only the most recent version of the app is permitted to
exchange the data with the server. Users of all earlier versions are
required to update to permit synchronization.

- To always require the tablets to update to version of Survey
Solutions as installed on the server, set the checkbox to checked
state.
- To permit the tablets to exchange the data with the server from
earlier versions of Survey Solutions, set the checkbox to unchecked
state.

This setting is only a recommendation. If Survey Solutions determines
that e.g. the newly imported questionnaire has features not supported
by the version installed on the interviewer's tablet, it will still
require to update.

The checkbox `Enable notifications on device` controls whether the
[notifications](/interviewer/app/app-notifications/) will be issued
for interviewers during their work on the tablets.

**default = on**

- To show the notifications to interviewers set the checkbox to checked state.
- To not show the notifications to interviewers set the checkbox to unchecked
  state.

The checkbox `Enable partial synchronization` controls whether partial
synchronization will be performed during synchronization with the server.

**default = off**

- To enable partial synchronization set the checkbox to checked state.
- To disable partial synchronization set the checkbox to unchecked state.

Numeric parameter `Geography question accuracy` sets the requested accuracy
(in meters) for geography-type  questions with automatic and semi-automatic
measurement. It accepts integer values from 1m to 1,000m.

**default = 10**

Numeric parameter `Geography question period` regulates how frequently the
points will be recorded in a geography-type question by setting up the period
between the recordings of the points. The period is measured in seconds. Any
value from 5 to 1,000 may be specified.

**default = 10**

Textual parameter `ESRI API key` is the key that the user needs to obtain from
[Esri](https://www.esri.com/en-us/about/) to utilize online source of tiles for
the base map layer when using the map dashboard or answering geography type
questions in Interviewer and Supervisor apps. Additional details are in the
[online maps key](/headquarters/mapsmanage/online-maps-key/) topic.

<FONT color="maroon">Usage of the
`ESRI API key` may (and likely will) cost you money.  It is important to
familiarize yourself with the pricing, plans, charges and limits as applicable.
These conditions may be changed, possibly even without prior notice. Pricing
and billing conditions may depend on whether the user is a private user or an
organization. All of the billing for this service occurs between you and the
corresponding provider, the Survey Solutions developers are not charging you
for this service.</FONT>

By default the API key is blank (not specified) and the online maps are not
selectable.

**default = ""**


### Web interview settings

The checkbox `Web interview email notifications` controls whether respondents
to web surveys may request an email with a link to resume the interview if the
interview session gets interrupted.

The email with the resume link is only sent when a
[bulk email service provider](/headquarters/cawi/email-providers/)
is set up, otherwise it is not sent out even if this checkbox is checked.

**default = off**

- To allow respondents to request an email with a resume link set the checkbox
  to checked state.
- To not allow respondents to request an email with a resume link set the
  checkbox to unchecked state.

### Company logo
Here one can customize the logo that is displayed when the user logs
into the Survey Solutions data server or the Interviewer App.

**default = neutral themed image**

Survey Solutions is deployed with a neutral image that may be customized
to the organization's or survey's logo.

- To change the logo, click on `Choose File` button and select an image
from the local machine. Image will be displayed on the settings page.
Click `Save` when ready to use this image on all the login screens.

- To remove the logo, click the `Remove logo` button.
